Azure Blob Storage
Azure Blob Storage is a service that enables you to store massive amounts of unstructured data as binary large objects, or blobs, in the cloud. Blobs are an efficient way to store data files in a format that is optimized for cloud-based storage, and applications can read and write them by using the Azure blob storage API.
Blobs are stored in a container. You control who can read and write blobs inside a container at the container level.
Azure blob storage supports three different types of blob:
Block blobs
Page blobs
Append blobs

3 BLOB TIERS
The Hot tier is the default. You use this tier for blobs that are accessed frequently. The blob data is stored on high-performance media.
The Cool tier has lower performance and incurs reduced storage charges compared to the Hot tier. Use the Cool tier for data that is accessed infrequently. It's common for newly created blobs to be accessed frequently initially, but less so as time passes. In these situations, you can create the blob in the Hot tier, but migrate it to the Cool tier later. You can migrate a blob from the Cool tier back to the Hot tier.
The Archive tier provides the lowest storage cost, but with increased latency. The Archive tier is intended for historical data that mustn't be lost, but is required only rarely. Blobs in the Archive tier are effectively stored in an offline state. Typical reading latency for the Hot and Cool tiers is a few milliseconds, but for the Archive tier, it can take hours for the data to become available. To retrieve a blob from the Archive tier, you must change the access tier to Hot or Cool. The blob will then be rehydrated. You can read the blob only when the rehydration process is complete.


A lifecycle management policy can automatically move a blob from Hot to Cool, and then to the Archive tier, as it ages and is used less frequently (policy is based on the number of days since modification). A lifecycle management policy can also arrange to delete outdated blobs.